README.md, before:

# Awesome Smalltalk [![Awesome](http://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

[<img src="https://github.com/gstn-caruso/awesome-smalltalk/blob/master/smalltalk-logo.png?raw=true" align="right" width="160">](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smalltalk)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/gstn-caruso/awesome-smalltalk.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/gstn-caruso/awesome-smalltalk)

A categorized community-driven collection of awesome Smalltalk libraries, tools, frameworks, papers and software.

Sharing, suggestions and contributions are always welcome! Just open a Pull request and that's it.

- [Awesome Smalltalk](#awesome-smalltalk)
- [Implementations](#implementations)
- [Resources](#resources)
  - [Media](#media)
  - [History](#history)
- [Frameworks](#frameworks)
  - [Web](#web-frameworks)
  - [Other tools](#other-tools)
- [Contribute](#contribute)
- [License](#license)

## Implementations

- [Amber Smalltalk, runs on JavaScript](https://amber-lang.net/)
- [Cuis smalltalk](https://cuis-smalltalk.org/)
- [GNU Smalltalk](http://smalltalk.gnu.org/)
- [GemTalk Systems, GemStone/S](https://gemtalksystems.com/)
- [Pharo Smalltalk](https://pharo.org/)
- [Smalltalk/X](https://www.exept.de/smalltalk-x.html)
- [Squeak](https://squeak.org/)
- [Strongtalk, for Windows, offers optional strong typing](http://strongtalk.org/)
- [VisualAge Smalltalk](https://www.instantiations.com/products/vasmalltalk/)
- [VisualWorks](http://www.cincomsmalltalk.com/main/products/visualworks/)
- [eToys, a visual programming system for learning](http://www.squeakland.org/)

## Resources

### Media

- [Argentinian Smalltalk conference videos](https://www.youtube.com/user/FASTFoundation/playlists)
- [ESUG YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/esugboard)

### History

- [Design Principles Behind Smalltalk](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~evans/cs655/readings/smalltalk.html)
- [The Early History of Smalltalk](http://worrydream.com/EarlyHistoryOfSmalltalk/)

### Object-Oriented Design

- [Designing Reusable Classes](http://laputan.org/drc.html), from Ralph Johnson & Brian Foote 

## Frameworks / Tools

### Web frameworks

- [Cuis web](https://github.com/gstn-caruso/cuis-web)
- [Iliad](https://iliadproject.github.io/)
- [Seaside](https://github.com/seasidest/seaside)
- [Teapot, micro web framework for Pharo Smalltalk](https://github.com/zeroflag/Teapot)

### Other tools

- [NeoJSON](https://github.com/svenvc/NeoJSON) - Framework for working with JSON as Smalltak objects

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.

## License

[![CC0](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0)

Commit message:

Adds Monticello and Metacello
Even though Monticello is included with Pharo and Squeak image, I didn't know it was there, so I'd have found it useful to be on the list :thinking:

README.md, after:

# Awesome Smalltalk [![Awesome](http://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

[<img src="https://github.com/gstn-caruso/awesome-smalltalk/blob/master/smalltalk-logo.png?raw=true" align="right" width="160">](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smalltalk)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/gstn-caruso/awesome-smalltalk.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/gstn-caruso/awesome-smalltalk)

A categorized community-driven collection of awesome Smalltalk libraries, tools, frameworks, papers and software.

Sharing, suggestions and contributions are always welcome! Just open a Pull request and that's it.

- [Awesome Smalltalk](#awesome-smalltalk)
- [Implementations](#implementations)
- [Resources](#resources)
  - [Media](#media)
  - [History](#history)
- [Frameworks](#frameworks)
  - [Web](#web-frameworks)
  - [Other tools](#other-tools)
- [Contribute](#contribute)
- [License](#license)

## Implementations

- [Amber Smalltalk, runs on JavaScript](https://amber-lang.net/)
- [Cuis smalltalk](https://cuis-smalltalk.org/)
- [GNU Smalltalk](http://smalltalk.gnu.org/)
- [GemTalk Systems, GemStone/S](https://gemtalksystems.com/)
- [Pharo Smalltalk](https://pharo.org/)
- [Smalltalk/X](https://www.exept.de/smalltalk-x.html)
- [Squeak](https://squeak.org/)
- [Strongtalk, for Windows, offers optional strong typing](http://strongtalk.org/)
- [VisualAge Smalltalk](https://www.instantiations.com/products/vasmalltalk/)
- [VisualWorks](http://www.cincomsmalltalk.com/main/products/visualworks/)
- [eToys, a visual programming system for learning](http://www.squeakland.org/)

## Resources

### Media

- [Argentinian Smalltalk conference videos](https://www.youtube.com/user/FASTFoundation/playlists)
- [ESUG YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/esugboard)

### History

- [Design Principles Behind Smalltalk](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~evans/cs655/readings/smalltalk.html)
- [The Early History of Smalltalk](http://worrydream.com/EarlyHistoryOfSmalltalk/)

### Object-Oriented Design

- [Designing Reusable Classes](http://laputan.org/drc.html), from Ralph Johnson & Brian Foote 

## Frameworks / Tools

### Web frameworks

- [Cuis web](https://github.com/gstn-caruso/cuis-web)
- [Iliad](https://iliadproject.github.io/)
- [Seaside](https://github.com/seasidest/seaside)
- [Teapot, micro web framework for Pharo Smalltalk](https://github.com/zeroflag/Teapot)

### Version mmanagemente
- [Monticello](https://wiki.squeak.org/squeak/1287) - Version control system
- [Metacello](https://github.com/Metacello/metacello) - Package management for Monticello (can integrate with git!)

### Other tools

- [NeoJSON](https://github.com/svenvc/NeoJSON) - Framework for working with JSON as Smalltak objects

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.

## License

[![CC0](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0)
